.TH DSP-INSTALL-PROFILE 1 "30 September 2025" "HiFiBerry DSP toolkit 1.3.2" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
dsp-install-profile \- install DSP profile using REST API
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dsp-install-profile
[\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIPROFILE_FILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B dsp-install-profile
installs a DSP profile XML file to a HiFiBerry DSP using the REST API.
This tool provides a simple command-line interface to upload and activate
DSP profiles without requiring direct access to SigmaStudio or complex
API calls.

The tool connects to the DSP's REST API server (sigmatcpserver), uploads
the specified XML profile file, and verifies the installation. The profile
is written to the DSP's EEPROM and becomes active immediately.

.SH ARGUMENTS
.TP
.BR PROFILE_FILE
Path to the XML profile file to install. The file must be a valid
SigmaStudio-exported XML profile compatible with the target DSP hardware.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-host " " \fIHOST\fR
DSP server hostname or IP address (default: localhost)
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-port " " \fIPORT\fR
DSP server port (default: 13141)
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-timeout " " \fISECONDS\fR
Connection timeout in seconds (default: 30)
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Enable verbose output for debugging and detailed progress information
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress non-error output messages
.TP
.BR \-\-help
Show help message and exit
.TP
.BR \-\-version
Show version information and exit

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Install profile to local DSP:
.B dsp-install-profile /path/to/profile.xml

.TP
Install profile to remote DSP:
.B dsp-install-profile -h 192.168.1.100 /path/to/profile.xml

.TP
Install with custom port and verbose output:
.B dsp-install-profile -h dsp.local -p 8080 -v /path/to/profile.xml

.TP
Quiet installation with timeout:
.B dsp-install-profile -q -t 60 /usr/share/profiles/my-profile.xml

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
Success
.TP
.B 1
General error
.TP
.B 2
Invalid arguments or command-line options
.TP
.B 3
Profile file not found or not readable
.TP
.B 4
Connection error - cannot reach DSP API server
.TP
.B 5
API error - server rejected the profile or returned an error

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /usr/share/hifiberry/dspprofiles/
Default location for DSP profile XML files
.TP
.B /etc/sigmatcp.conf
SigmaTCP server configuration file

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B HTTP_PROXY, HTTPS_PROXY
Proxy settings for curl (if needed for network access)

.SH DEPENDENCIES
.TP
.B curl
Required for making HTTP requests to the DSP API server

.SH NOTES
.PP
This tool requires the sigmatcpserver to be running on the target DSP
system with the REST API enabled. The default configuration listens on
localhost:13141.

.PP
The XML profile file should be exported from SigmaStudio and be compatible
with the target DSP hardware (typically ADAU145x series).

.PP
Profile installation writes to the DSP's EEPROM, making the change
persistent across reboots. The new profile becomes active immediately
upon successful installation.

.PP
For security reasons, ensure that the DSP API server is properly
configured and access-controlled in production environments.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR dsptoolkit (1),
.BR sigmatcpserver (1),
.BR curl (1)

.PP
HiFiBerry DSP documentation:
.I https://www.hifiberry.com/docs/

.PP
REST API documentation:
.I /usr/share/doc/hifiberry-dsp/restapi.md

.SH BUGS
Report bugs to: https://github.com/hifiberry/hifiberry-dsp/issues

.SH AUTHOR
HiFiBerry team <info@hifiberry.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2025 HiFiBerry. This is free software; see the source
for copying conditions. There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.